Before we decided the tech stack, we knew that we needed to have a Javascript based frontend library and a web server. We need a frontend library (rather than a simple HTML + CSS setup) because our application is going to deal with a lot of user interaction with 3D render of a globe and fetching a lot of data. Server-side rendering would simply not do the job we want. Once we knew the general gist of what we need, we simply talked about frameworks and libraries that we had used before and talked about how each would satisfy the needs of our application. In the end, we came up with Flask + Angular + MongoDB.

For the back end, we were interested in learning Flask, exploiting our knowledge of Python. Flask is also a modular framework which makes it very easy for us to add or remove flask packages in the future. We’ve also considered Django as an alternative. However Django comes packages with a server-side rendering functionalities which we won’t need since we’ll be using a frontend library to handle the view. Additionally, we’ve also considered Express.js as a simple lightweight web framework. However it ultimately came down to what programming language our team was interested in and we wanted to learn more about backend development in Python.

For the database, we chose MongoDB because for a small scale application like ours, we would be wasting time by setting up table relationships. Although MongoDB is generally slower than RDBs, we did not take this into consideration because of the scale of the application. Using MongoDB will allow us to store data quickly and have seamless transition between the document saved in MongoDB and its JSON equivalent in the frontend where the data will ultimately be consumed

For the frontend, we chose to use Angular because of its robust CLI developed by the Angular team that can enable us to rapidly build components and services. We’ve also considered React and Vue.js as well but both of those frameworks require additional packages (such as Redux and React-Router) in order to make a full-featured website. Because we expect our frontend to be relatively simple, we chose to use Angular which comes prepackaged with routers and other critical supportive functions needed to make a website. Finally, developing in Typescript will help us write code quicker that are less prone to errors because it’ll force us to use the typing system. Our hope is that this will help us detect bugs during compile time rather than runtime.